So I'm excited to start off our lesson about block data.
So, previously we were talking a lot about Bitcoin Core and how to use it as a tool.
In this lesson, we'll shift gears a bit and
learn about data as it relates to blocks in transactions.
So with that in mind, why is important to understand
blocks and transactions as data models?
Yes, the data models are extremely
important to understand because we're going to be paying
attention more and more to the protocol and every time that we look at the protocol,
we have rules with a way to interact with blockchain platform.
We need to understand the data model so that way we know when to relate
the data that we need with our application development efforts.
So it's really important to understand
a data model so that way we can work with that data model.
Interesting. So speaking of data,
I know there's ways to embed data
into the Blockchain and that's actually sort of some controversy.
So for example in the bitcoin platform,
some developers developed a way to embed data
using operation codes are what's called Op-codes into blocks.
There has been a divide in the community where on one side people
say the Bitcoin Blockchain wasn't meant to stave off non-financial data.
So, we're inflating the blockchain and
putting a heavy load on on folks who weren't intending to do it.
On the other side, the community saying,
this is a way for the Blockchain to grow into spaces beyond financial sector.
So, do you have thoughts on that?
I do. You know it's really interesting the controversy that goes on in community.
Early on, folks would actually have to burn their Bitcoin to embed data,
and this would inflate what we know as a UTXO database.
So the sides would grow the ledger would be more expensive to maintain across the nodes.
So, now we have a maturity existing within the protocol as
new improvement proposals get embedded into
the Blockchain and Op-code right like Op-return.
You still can embed data but now they're
safeguards to help make sure that the UTXO database
doesn't inflate so much that it's nearly
impossible for a full node to download the ledger.
It's really still important to understand that the non-financial data is
really best to be separate off
in regards to the ethics of the way that we're maintaining that dataset.
Right. So, if we're going to create a transaction and we want to store data because we
love the immutability nature of a blockchain ledger.
There's some creative ways that we still can
utilize a public Blockchain like even with Bitcoin.
Well, we can take advantage that Op-return
and embed a hash to prove that transaction exists.
We don't need to store a ton of data on a public ledger.
You make a good point. I'm only talking about ethics, the idea of ethics.
It's not commonly a topic of
discussion as a developer is actually a really important concepts
especially as we're developing across industries
and the implications of that into those industries.
So with that do you have any advice for students before they start the lesson.
What you meant at a good point about like ethics,
just being cautious about it.
Anytime that we work with data,
we do want to think about
our ethical responsibility for the way that we're handling data.
Something that I think a lot of people don't
recognize is the value of understanding that privacy.
Like we talked about before on unblocked and identity.
Maintaining your identities it's extremely important,
and that should carry forward to the way that you do a transaction
especially when you start embedding data utilizing Blockchain services.
Will be ethically responsible and maintain that dataset
that's going to be mutually beneficial for everybody's going to use your application.
Yeah. So I'm really excited to
talk more with you guys about this as the lesson continues.